Documentation Getting Started (#90)
eProsima/DDS-Router: docs/rst/user_manual/getting_started.rst

.. include:: ../exports/alias.include

.. _getting_started_tutorial:

###############
Getting Started
###############

> |ddsrouter| is a cross-platform non-graphic application developed by eProsima and powered by Fast DDS
> that allow to create a communication bridge that connects two DDS networks that otherwise would be isolated.
> The main use case of the |ddsrouter| is to communicate two DDS networks that are physically or virtually separated
> and belong to different LANs, allowing those entities to publish and subscribe to local and remote topics indistinctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|ddsrouter| is a cross-platform non-graphical application developed by eProsima and powered by Fast DDS
that allows to create a communication bridge that connects two DDS networks that otherwise would be isolated.
The main use case of the |ddsrouter| is to communicate two DDS networks that are physically or virtually separated
and belong to different LANs, allowing the entities of each network to publish and subscribe to local and remote topics indistinctly.
```

Author: :+1:

Project Overview
================

> The |ddsrouter| is an application that internally run :term:`Participants <Participant>`, that are an abstraction of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |ddsrouter| is an application that internally run :term:`Participants <Participant>`, which are an abstraction of
```

DDS :term:`DomainParticipants <DomainParticipant>`.

> Each one of these Participants is an communication interface: a "door" to a specific DDS network configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each one of these Participants is an communication interface, a "door" to a specific DDS network configuration.
```

These Participants allow the application to connect to different DDS networks at the same time.

> Every time one of these Participants receives a message from the DDS network it is connected, it will forward the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every time one of these Participants receives a message from the DDS network to which they are connected, they will forward the
```

Author: :+1:

data and the source of this message through the other Participants.

> In which DDS configurations and which topics the |ddsrouter| will work depends on the initial

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |ddsrouter| configuration and the topics in which it operates depends on the initial
```

Author: :+1:

:ref:`DDS Router configuration <user_manual_configuration>`.

The following schema represents a |ddsrouter| local use case.

> In this scenario, we have different DDS networks that are isolated one to each other, due to Transport Protocol
> (UDP, TCP, etc.), Discovery Protocol (Simple, Discovery Server, etc.) or by DDS :term:`Domain Id`.
> Configuring the |ddsrouter| to have 4 different Participants, each of them using one of the different scenario
> configurations, will create internally 4 Participants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This scenario presents different DDS networks that are isolated one to each other due to the Transport Protocol
(UDP, TCP, etc.), the Discovery Protocol (Simple, Discovery Server, etc.) or the DDS :term:`Domain Id` used by each DDS entity.
Configuring the |ddsrouter| to have 4 different Participants, each of them configured for one isolated DDS network, will create internally 4 Participants.
```

Author: :+1:

All the data that arrives to one of the Participants will be forwarded through the others, allowing all the machines
to connect to each other independently of their different configurations.

.. figure:: /rst/figures/ddsrouter_overview.png

WAN Communication
-----------------

> In order to achieve a WAN communication of two networks that work in different LANs, each LAN requires a running
> |ddsrouter| application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve a WAN communication of two networks that work in different LANs requires a running
|ddsrouter| application on each LAN.
```

Author: :+1:

> These |ddsrouter| will communicate to each other using DDS over WAN, and will route every message received in LAN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |ddsrouter| deployed will communicate to each other using DDS over WAN, and will route every message received in LAN
```

Author: :+1:

to the remote |ddsrouter|.

> Once the remote Router has received it, it will transmit the data to the local networks it is connected with.
> This way, both DDS networks will behave as if they would belong to the same LAN.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the remote Router receives data, it will transmit it to the local networks to which it is connected.
This way, both DDS networks will behave as if they would belong to the same LAN.
```

Author: :+1:

> A great feature as well is that WAN communications is not limited to a single pair of |ddsrouter|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another important feature is that WAN communications is not limited to a single pair of |ddsrouter|.
```

Author: :+1:

> The communication used in WAN is DDS using Discovery Server (dynamic discovery over non-multicast networks).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WAN communication is performed using the :ref:`eProsima Discovery Server discovery mechanism <link to discovery server>`  (dynamic discovery over non-multicast networks).
```

Author: :+1:

Thus, any DDS Router connected to the same Discovery Servers will works as a standard DDS node, publishing

> and subscribing in the nodes required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and subscribing in the shared DDS topics.
```

Author: :+1:

> This allows to create a non limited and hugely scalable decentralized and distributed DDS network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows to create a non limited and highly scalable decentralized and distributed DDS network.
```

Author: :+1:

.. figure:: /rst/figures/ddsrouter_overview_wan.png

Usage Description
=================

> The |ddsrouter| is a terminal (non-graphical) application that create the DDS bridge as long as it is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The |ddsrouter| is a terminal (non-graphical) application that creates the DDS bridge as long as it is running.
```

Author: :+1:

The configuration and user interaction with this application has been studied and probed to be very easy to learn

> and user friendly.

Reviewer: Say something here related to an user-oriented design instead of this.

Author: (not sure if what you want to say here) :2nd_place_medal:

* **RUN**: In order to run a |ddsrouter| application, just a *YAML* configuration file is required with the specific

>   Router configurations (see :ref:`section <user_manual_configuration>` to check how to configure a DDS Router)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  configurations (see :ref:`section <user_manual_configuration>` to check how to configure a DDS Router)
```

>   (see section TODO to check the application supported arguments).

Reviewer: TODO

Author: :+1:

* **INTERACT**: Once the |ddsrouter| application is running, the topics involved in this communication could be
  changed in runtime by just changing the *YAML* configuration file

>   (see section TODO for more details about re-configuring a running |ddsrouter|)..

Reviewer: TODO

```suggestion
  (see section TODO for more details about re-configuring a running |ddsrouter|).
```

Author: :+1:

* **STOP**: To stop the |ddsrouter| just send a `^C` signal to the process, and it will gracefully close the whole

>   application (see section TODO for more details on how to close the application).

Reviewer: TODO

```suggestion
  application (see section TODO for more details on how to close the application).
```

Author: :+1:

.. todo:

    Add links to user interface manual

Common Use Cases
================

The different cases where the |ddsrouter| could be applied are very vary, and would increase as new Participant Types
will be added in future releases.
These are most common use cases so far:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    *   - Use Case
        - Example

    *   - Communicating two different DDS Domain Ids
        -

    *   - Communicating ROS 2 Discovery Server executions
        -

    *   - WAN Communication
        -

> .. todo:

Reviewer: Add links when #79 is merged

Author: added in: https://github.com/eProsima/DDS-Router/pull/90/commits/c977e1a95e2e83fa18790ba6ff4d1f1a7b990f58
